Hi, everyone, in this we're going to move the gallery based on the mouse move event, Auri, so let's
go ahead and let's see what it is that we are going to do here.
Now, there is a problem with this gallery.
Still, there are a lot.
But I want to point out this one.
So when I click on Unclick, we can see that the mouse down and mouse up, they were perfectly fine.
And we saw how mouse live works fine as well.
But what about the mouse move whenever the mouse is move moving.
So if I click and if I move, we can see that there was a not allowed cursor.
Right.
This is the not allowed.
And if I release it, we are still inside what state?
This is the act if this is the active clause that we added.
So we are still here.
We are still at our original.
But what about here?
So if I come into the final project, so if I click we can move it and unclick so we never get that
null allowed.
So let's go ahead and let's implement this this functionality.
So from here, I'm going to remove this.
Right.
I just removed it and I'm going to create another event listener, which is going to be, of course,
our final event listener.
OK, so inside here, this is going to be the mouse move and this event is going to be responsible for
moving the gallery.
Right.
So whenever you want to move it from one side to the next side, this is the event and the event name
is Mouse Move.
And we are going to say function, which is a callback function, and we are going to trace the event
itself.
But first things first.
I'm going to say if is down is not true.
We want to return from the function.
If we are not in the down state, we do not want to we do not want this function to go forward.
But this is still like this condition says that when the F is down is true return.
This is the opposite of what we want.
So I'm just going to like, put there a inarticulately operator.
And this this is not equality quality, not operator.
Sorry, this is a not operator.
And this says when that is down is false return.
OK, so after that, what I want to do is I want to say prevent I want to prevent the default behavior
of this mouse move.
Right.
So whenever we are here now we can see, we do not see that.
And now we are we are back to our like mouse up and mouse down.
We do not see that not allowed, OK, because by default, you are not allowed to move elements from
one side to the next.
So this is ironic because the event's name is Mouse Move and still you're not allowed.
This is, if you remember, exactly like the drag and drop API that we were working with that originally
or by default, you are not allowed to drag or drop anything.
So it's even says drag start, but it's, you know, or drag and or drag over or whatever it is, the
drag API.
But it's you have to say either prevent default, you have to prevent the default behavior that doesn't
allow you to do that specific thing for which the event has been created.
I mean, this is ironic.
All right.
So at this point, we have created this and we have removed I think that not allowed that we had there.
Now, what I want to do in here is I want to specify the amount that the user has scrolled to the left.
So I'm going to come into the mouse down and we have created this scroll left.
And you know what?
What I'm going to do is, first off, let's go ahead.
And what is that?
I'm going to console log something here, and that is slider dot, scroll left, scroll, scroll left.
Let's go ahead and let's see what this gives us.
So I'm going to zoom out because that's better.
We can see this better.
So where is inspect?
We are here.
So if I come here and if I click, we can see the scroll left to zero.
It doesn't matter where we click because we have not scrolled it any.
That's why the scroll left is zero.
So I want to grab the scroll left, this scroll left and I want to set it to the slider that scroll
left.
And in case you're wondering, you know what?
I kind of forgot to give you these resources.
So this is the resource for the offset left.
So I'm just going to put it right here.
If you want to read about Offset Left, this is the resource for that.
If you want to read about the scroll left, you can read about it here.
Now, don't miss.
Taking this scroll left with this one, I should have probably changed, I should probably say, to
left, because this is a variable that we have created.
This is something that is available by JavaScript.
There should be a difference.
So I'm going to say scroll to left should be equal to slider dot.
Scroll left.
Yeah, so that's what I wanted to do here and now we we know exactly where we are scrolling, how much
we are scrolling, whenever we scroll the image, we can get that specific number.
And that number is going to tell us how much the image has been scrawled, how sorry, how much the
mouse has been scrawled so we can scroll the image by that amount.
OK, I'm going to tell you how this actually works.
So I'm going to create a constant here and I'm going to call it X.
I could just call it this turns X, X Files, files X, and we are going to say either page X and we
are going to do the same thing.
OK, Slider, that offset offset left.
OK, so now we have initialized the start X right here and we have given it a value right here and now
we want to grab this value and we want to store it inside our distance X as well.
Right.
And now I want to create before this.
Let's go ahead and let's say council log.
All right.
And if you want to grab the values there is this is the a handy trick.
If you want to grab values from the from the variables that you have created, just put them inside
a like an object.
So I'm just going to say start X as well.
So now if I click and if I move, it says, oops, it is X, this is distance X, distance X and excuse
me, start.
So now when I move we can see that this says distance X is 200 start X..
So what does this actually going to give us the start.
X is going to give us exactly where the user has clicked.
The distance is going to give us is going to tell us how much the user has moved or how much the user
has deviated from that point where the user has clicked.
So when I click here, the start X should be like something very small.
But when I move the distance X should be like something bigger.
So now we can see that the start X says right here, it says that the distance, the starting point
was to.
And how much have we deviated from that starting point by 116 pixels.
So I'm going to do it one more time.
So I'm going to click here and I'm going to drag it all the way to here.
And this should give us like almost fourteen hundred because that is the width of this container.
So click here and come all the way to here.
So this is going to give us.
And what is the final one.
The final one is thirteen ninety seven.
We started a two.
And we ended at this, so this is, again, one more time, this is going to give us where the distance
has started and this is going to give us that exact distance that we have traveled.
OK, so if I click here and come this way, we can see that the distance is decreasing.
Click here, come this way.
The distance is increasing, but we can track that distance.
That's why we have said distance X.
And is because it's in the X direction and now what I want to do is I want to create another variable
and that variable is going to tell us how far we move either to their right or to the left from the
initial point, even though this distance it is going to give us that.
But there is a problem with that.
And what is the problem with this now?
I'm just going to click here and I'm going to move to this point.
Right.
And now the distances to all 42 pixels, even though we have clicked right in the middle of this like
this break point for these images and we move to to here.
So we should get like almost six, 700.
But why?
It is twelve for the two.
The reason for that is it is grabbing districts.
And also from there, we are going to say that we have traveled by this much.
So if the start X is zero, then this traveling distance is going to be accurate because the Starbucks
is zero.
But if the start X is, for example, 319.
So I'm going to I'm going to show you exactly what I mean.
So let's zoom in for this.
So like like really zoom in.
So where should I go?
What should I do here?
How should I a so so the distance we know that this there's this big container is fourteen hundred pixels.
Right.
So what is the distance from this year to this year.
It should roughly be like two hundred and fifty something pixels, some 300 pixels.
It shouldn't be more than that.
So when I grab it and if I come here to this distance and I release it, it's this thirteen, thirty
four, you know, like, like does it mean that from, from this year to this year we have thirteen
hundred and thirty four pixels.
Now we are basically moving almost three hundred and twenty five.
Yeah.
Three hundred and twenty five pixels because if you subtract the statistics from the distance X we are
going to get that amount and then we will know exactly how much we have walked.
So consed I hope you, you know what I mean.
So I'm going to grab the distance X.
It's at a distance X and I'm going to subtract from there the Starbucks and and now we will know exactly
how much we have moved.
OK, so let's say Consol does log the walk.
OK, now if I click and if I go, we can see that we have moved one hundred and eighty and we can go,
we can go all the way to 800.
So now if I click from this year to this year, this is three hundred and twenty, almost three hundred
and twenty five, which we had before.
This is not thirteen hundred.
This is almost 300.
But if I go from here all the way to here, we should get fourteen hundred, thirteen hundred and ninety
seven.
So almost fourteen hundred.
So now we have, we know exactly how much we have moved.
From that starting point, keep that in mind from the starting point, not from the container start,
but from the start X. We want to know that, but what Starbucks gave us was distance X gave us.
It was from the starting point, sorry, from this starting.
It was from the container start, not the starting point.
Now, this walk is going to give us how much we have deviated from the point that we have clicked,
how much we have moved from the point that we have clicked.
And now that we know it, what do we want this value to be assigned to?
This value should be assigned to the slider that scroll left.
OK, and we are going to say, Slider, that scroll left, let's assign it to walk.
Just assign it to walk and let's.
OK, it doesn't do anything, OK?
Oh, so now if I come here.
And if I do it, you know, it's kind of shaky, it doesn't.
So come on, buddy, it's not working correctly.
It's come here, check it out, so I thought, OK, scroll, hmmm, I should not set it to walk.
Let's set it to scroll to left.
Let's set it to this one.
And this is still not working, and slider, that scroll left and set it to walk.
Let's set it to scroll left minus walk.
Let's see if this works.
And now we can see that it works perfectly fine, OK, because the scroll left.
This is the scroll to left.
This is basically zero.
This is going to give us how much the container, the distance of the container from this side of the
page.
This is going to give us the scroll left.
How much we have scroll.
We know that the initial value is going to be zero, right?
Wherever we click.
That was zero.
And now we can see that it works because we just have to, like, subtract that from the walk.
So if we just put and walk here, it is shaky, it doesn't work like how we want it, see, so if I
do this, it works like this.
So it works in the negative direction.
See, it works like that.
See negative, negative, negative.
And it always starts from this from the first.
So even if I click on the zebra and if I drag it, we can see we can we have our tiger buddy here.
If I click on this deer and if I click come all the way to these parrots and if I click on the parrots
and move, we are still we go back to our like slider once more.
That's why I'm just going to go ahead and add a negative sign there.
And now let's see.
And now it moves in this direction.
But it is.
It is still have it.
It still has.
I hope I'm not confusing you.
It still has that jump.
So so we are coming, for example, to these parrots when I come and click on the parrots and I want
to drag it to the next image that we have.
So we are here.
And when I click it and when I mouse move, we should see the hamsters.
OK, so come to the parrot.
But when I move it, we don't see the hamsters.
We are back at the starting point.
So how can we solve this problem is just minus that a scroll to left value that we have.
So now you can see it works.
And the reason that assists scroll to left because the original scroll is going to be to the left and
then when the scroll to the left happens, then the scroll is going to be through.
Right.
So if I grab it, come on top release it.
Come here.
Nothing works.
So this is how you can create.
I know this was like a bit confusing.
This might have been a bit confusing, I feel like, but I don't think this was confusing.
And the reason for that it might have been a bit confusing is we we kind of think differently.
There wasn't a lot of code, you know, but we are thinking in a different context that set for this
structure.
See you guys in the next project.